Frogs absorb water through their skin so they don't need to drink.
Frogs can lay as many as 4,000 eggs in frogspawn.
The eyes and nose of a frog are on top of its head so it can breathe and see when most of its body is under the water.
Frogs have long back legs and webbed feet for jumping and swimming.
Certain frogs can jump up to 20 times their own body length in a single leap.
Frogs usually eat meat (bugs and worms) and swallow their food whole.
The world's biggest frog is the goliath frog from Cameroon in West Africa. Their body can be one-foot long.
The smallest frogs in the world are less than half-an-inch long.
In the Seychelles, there is a male frog that carries its young around on its back until they become adults.
People who study frogs and toads are called herpetologists. Herpetology is the study of amphibians and reptiles.
Frog bones form a new ring every year when the frog is hibernating, just like trees do. Scientists can count these rings to discover the age of the frog.
Because frogs come out in the rain, people used to think that they fell to earth in the rain! And in nineteenth century England, people tried catching them to prove it.
One type of desert frog can wait as long as seven years for water by surrounding itself in a type of transparent bag that becomes its first meal once the rain comes.
Amphibians' eyes come in all shapes and sizes. Some even have square or heart shaped pupils. But amphibians don't see color -- they only see in black or white.
The golden dart frog is the most poisonous frog on earth and the skin of one frog could kill up to 1,000 people.
In recent years, a painkiller with 200 times the power of morphine has been found in the skin of a frog.
The male Darwins Frog takes its mate's eggs into its mouth as soon as they show signs of life and they stay there until they emerge as fully grown froglets.
Frogs cannot live in the sea or any salt water.
There are more than 4,000 types of amphibians in the world, but Europe has very few--only 45 species.
Many of the most brightly colored tropical frogs are colored in this way to warn predators that they are poisonous.
One gram of the toxin produced by the skin of the golden poison dart frog could kill 100,000 people.
When a frog swallows its prey, it blinks, which pushes its eyeballs down on top of the mouth to help push the food down its throat.
When Darwin’s frog tadpoles hatch, a male frog swallows the tadpoles. He keeps the tiny amphibians in his vocal sac for about 60 days to allow them to grow. He then proceeds to cough up tiny, fully formed frogs.
A frog completely sheds its skin about once a week. After it pulls off the old, dead skin, the frog usually eats it.
There are over 5,000 species of frog.
Frogs don’t need to drink water as they absorb it through their skin.
A frog’s call is unique to its species, and some frog calls can be heard up to a mile away.
Some frogs can jump over 20 times their own body length; that is like a human jumping 30m.
Due to their permeable skin, typically biphastic life (aquatic larvae and terrestrial adults), and mid-position in the food web frogs and other amphibians are excellent biological indicators of the wider health of ecosystems.
In Egypt the frog is the symbol of life and fertility, and in Egyptian mythology Heget is a frog-goddess who represents fertility.
Many species of frog care for their offspring. For example some poison dart frogs lay their eggs on the forest floor so they can guard them and urinate on them to keep them moist.
Females of some frog species keep a regular check on their offspring (tadpoles) and if food becomes scarce she will deposit unfertilised eggs for them to eat.
Asian tree frogs build nests in trees above water so that when the tadpoles hatch they fall directly into the water.
Goliath frog can reach 12.5 inches in length and 7.2 pounds of weight (like domestic cat or a newborn baby). Unlike most species of frogs, males are larger than females.
Dorsal side of the body of Goliath frog is covered with green colored skin that has granular texture. Underside of the body is yellow-orange colored.
Goliath frog has webbed feet and elongated second toe. Unlike other frogs, Goliath frogs do not possess nuptial pad (swelling on the forearms of males which facilitate grasping of females during mating ritual).
Goliath frog is able to leap 10 feet.
Goliath frogs have large eyes and acute sense of hearing, but they do not possess vocal cords and cannot produce sounds during the mating season.
Goliath frogs are nocturnal animals (active during the night).
Diet of Goliath frog depends on the developmental stage. Tadpoles are herbivores (plant eaters). Their diet is based on the plant called Dicraeia warmingii which grows only in the Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea. This (specialized) type of diet permits survival of Goliath frogs only in the restricted areas in the wild. Adult Goliath frogs are carnivores. They eat locusts, dragonflies, crabs, small snakes, fish, baby turtles and other amphibians.
Goliath frogs are able to catch and eat bats (discovered after examination of the stomach's content of captured Goliath frog).
Main predators of Goliath frogs are snakes, Nile crocodiles and large lizards such as Nile monitors.
Mating season of Goliath frogs takes place from July to August.
Males create semi-circular pools near the riverbanks using the gravel and rocks. They wrestle to establish dominance and gain opportunity to mate.
Female lays hundreds of eggs, attached to the vegetation on the sandy bottom of the rivers. Parents do not protect eggs against predators (they are left on their own). Tadpoles hatch from the eggs. They are miniature, just like the tadpoles of other frog species.
After 85 to 95 days tadpoles transform into fully developed Goliath frogs. Researchers estimate that Goliath frogs reach sexual maturity at the age of 10 to 12 months.
Goliath frogs hardly reproduce and rarely survive in the captivity.
Goliath frogs can survive 15 years in the wild and up to 21 years in the captivity.
Pac-Man frogs are one of the only types of frogs that have teeth.
When their habitat is dry, or they can't find sufficient food sources, the Pac-Man frog's outer skin will turn tough and dry. This keeps their inner skin moist, and once rehydrated, they will shed and eat the old layer.
Pac-Man frogs shouldn't be housed with others, as they may try to eat anything alive in their habitat, including fellow frogs.
Dart frogs have a unique croak! Most frogs have sophisticated vocal systems to express distress, mating behaviors and define their territories.
While dart frogs are carnivorous as adults, feeding on insects, as tadpoles they are omnivorous! Tadpoles eat anything from algae to insect larvae and even other tadpoles.
Poison frogs are commonly referred to as dart frogs because indigenous peoples rubbed the tips of their arrows and darts on the backs of frogs prior to hunting.
The normal life span for these animals in zoos and aquariums is about 10-15 years. Here at the Aquarium, we’ve had frogs live to be at least 23 years old!
While dart frogs are poisonous to predators who ingest them, researchers are investigating possible medical uses for the toxin. Doctors hope to learn more about the proteins in the frog’s secretions and the benefits said proteins could provide for pain management and other applications.
Wallace's flying frog can reach 4 inches in length. Females are larger than males.
Wallace's flying frog is brightly green colored. Lateral sides of the body, thighs, toes and snout are covered with yellow patches. Throat and belly are white or pale yellow colored. Skin is smooth or slightly granulated.
Wallace's flying frog has broad head with rounded snout, large eyes and eardrums. It has slender body and long legs.
Wallace's flying frog has extremely large feet with fully webbed toes and fingers. Toe pads are oversized and disc-shaped. Flap of loose skin (on the sides of the body) stretches between the limbs.
Unusual feet and flap of skin serve as a parachute which facilitates movement through the air. Soft, disc-like pads ensure gentle landing. Wallace flying frog also uses large pads to stick to the surface of trees.
Wallace's flying frog does not fly - it glides through the air to escape from predators such as large snakes. This animal is able to travel distance of 50 feet and safely land on another branch or tree. Wallace's flying frog glides diagonally (at the angle of less than 45 degrees) and gets closer to the ground with each gliding session. This type of movement is also known as "parachuting".
Wallace's flying frogs are arboreal animals (adapted to the life in the treetops). They move to the ground only to reproduce and lay eggs.
Wallace's flying frog is carnivore (meat-eater). Its diet is based on various insects.
Wallace's flying frog is named after Alfred Russel Wallace, naturalist who described this species in the 19th century.
Wallace's flying frogs mate during the rainy season. They gather in large groups called armies.
Mating takes place on the ground, during the night. Females produce liquid substance and stir it with hind legs until it becomes foamy.
Wallace's flying frogs have external fertilization. Female lays eggs into the foam and waits for male to cover them with sperm. Foamy nests are then attached to the branches above the shallow pools of water.
When embryonic development completes, foamy nests fall apart and tadpoles fall directly into the water where they can finish metamorphosis and turn into adult frogs.
Females usually lay eggs above the wallowing holes of Asian rhinoceros. Unfortunately, Asian rhinoceros are on the brink of extinction which means that survival of remaining Wallace's flying frogs in the wild may be questioned also.